.TH xcm 1 "January 12, 2012" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xcm \- window region handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxcm\fR -l [--window-name] [-v]
.fi 
\fBxcm\fR -p \fIWINDOW_ID\fR
.fi 
\fBxcm\fR -r --id \fIWINDOW_ID\fR [--geometry \fIWIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y\fR] [--profile \fIFILENAME.ICC\fR]]
.fi 
\fBxcm\fR [-h]
.fi 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The xcm tool handles per window regions and profiles following the X Color Management specification.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
list windows.
All windows are listed by ID.

\fB--window-name\fR show each window name after the ID.
.TP
.B \-p \-\-id\fR=\fIWINDOW_ID\fR
print window color region informations.

\fB--id\fR the X11 window ID as integer.
.TP
\fB\-r \fB--id\fR \fIWINDOW_ID\fR \fB--geometry\fR \fIWxH+X+Y\fR \fB--profile\fR \fIPROFILE.ICC\fR
set a window color region. The geometry will be added to the existing regions of the selected window. A geometry of 0x0+0+0 is a request to remove all regions. Overlapping regions are undefined. The ICC profile is optional.

\fB--id\fR the X11 window ID as integer.

\fB--geometry\fR the window geometry.

\fB--profile\fR the region profile to upload.
.TP
\fB\-d \fB--id\fR \fIWINDOW_ID\fR \fB--geometry\fR \fIWxH+X+Y\fR \fB--profile\fR \fIPROFILE.ICC\fR
release a window color region. The geometry will be searched and removed in the existing regions of the selected window.

\fB--id\fR the X11 window ID as integer.

\fB--geometry\fR the window geometry.

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
increase verbosity
.SH EXAMPLES 
.TP
Show all windows and their names:
.B xcm -l --window-name
.PP 
.TP
Print a windows regions:
.B xcm -p -id 12345
.PP 
.TP
Set a windows region to a witdht of 100, a height of 150, 100 pixel from right and 10 pixels from top:
.B xcm -r -id 12345 --geometry 100x150+100+10
.PP 
.TP
Set a windows region with a ICC profile:
.B xcm -r -id 12345 --geometry 100x150+100+10 --profile ./my_profile.icc
.PP 
.TP
Set a windows region to a Oyranos ICC profile:
.B xcm -r -id 12345 --geometry 100x150+100+10 --profile XYZ.icc
.PP 
.TP
Unset all windows regions:
.B xcm -r -id 12345 --geometry 0x0+0+0
.PP 
.TP
Delete one window region:
.B xcm -d -id 12345 --geometry 100x150+100+10
.PP 
.TP
Print a help text:
.B xcm -h
.PP 
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2011-2012, Kai-Uwe Behrmann
.fi
License: MIT <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xcmedid(1) xcmevents(1) xcmddc(1) libXcm(3) Xcm(3)
.fi
http://www.oyranos.org
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
at: http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=177017&atid=879553
