.TH xcmddc 1 "November 22, 2016" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xcmddc \- monitor EDID fetching over i2c
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxcmddc\fR [ -l [-v] ]
.fi 
\fBxcmddc\fR [ -d \fIPOSITIONAL_NUMBER\fR [--force-output] [--identify] ]
.fi 
\fBxcmddc\fR [ --i2c \fINODE_NAME\fR [--force-output] [--identify] ]
.fi 
\fBxcmddc\fR [-h]
.fi 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The xcmddc tool fetches a monitors EDID data block over a i2c communication channel.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
list devices.
Only devices which provide a EDID data block and the EDID's header is valid will be counted.

\fB-v\fR show each device by its node name.
.TP
.B \-d\fR=\fIPOSITIONAL_NUMBER\fR , \-d\fR \fIPOSITIONAL_NUMBER\fR
position in device list.
The numbering of monitors starts with zero for the first device. To get the
number of all available devices use "\fBxcmddc\fR -l". The EDID data block is dumped to stdout.

\fB--force-output\fR switch EDID header verificatcationn off.

\fB--identify\fR dump the error code as integer to stdout.
.TP
\fB\--i2c\fR=\fINODE_NAME\fR , \fB--i2c\fR \fINODE_NAME\fR
select the i2c device node file. The EDID data block is dumped to stdout. The --i2c option is much faster than the -d option. This is because of much fewer timeouts reuired for counting the valid i2c device with the -d option.

\fB--force-output\fR switch EDID header verification off.

\fB--identify\fR dump the error code as integer to stdout.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
increase verbosity
.SH EXAMPLES 
.TP
Count available i2c->monitor devices:
.B xcmddc -l
.PP 
.TP
List available i2c->monitor devices by name:
.B xcmddc -lv
.PP 
.TP
Dump EDID from first i2c node:
.B xcmddc -d 0
.PP 
.TP
Dump EDID by i2c device name:
.B xcmddc --i2c /dev/i2c-5
.PP 
.TP
Print a help text:
.B xcmddc -h
.PP 
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2010, Kai-Uwe Behrmann
.fi
License: MIT <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xcmedid(1) xcmevents(1) libXcm(3) XcmDDC(3)
.fi
http://www.oyranos.org
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
at: https://github.com/oyranos-cms/xcm/issues
